Update Blood Oxygen Saturation (SpO2).md (#47)
inform-us/requirements_specifications: informus/rules/Blood Oxygen Saturation (SpO2).md

---
# SPC CHARTS

## NOTE
Calendar week defined as: Monday 00:00 - Sunday 23:59:59
Data required: (i) number of patients (ie. CSN); (ii) 1-hour epoch labels (above/in range/below)

## SpO2 - Weekly percentage above, below, within SpO2 target
Operational definition = What proportion of patients receiving oxygen therapy (who have SPO2 targets set) are above, below and in range of their target on a weekly basis?
 
### 1 HOUR EPOCHS & DISCARD ‘IN’-ELIGIBLE HOURS 
1. 1-hour epochs from labelling rules above
2. Discard the following epoch labels:
     - ‘n/a’ (not on oxygen therapy and therefore not eligible to be in this metric calcaulation)
     - ‘fall through’
     - ‘not set’ (no target set)

### Percentage calculation
1. Fetch data from the previous calendar week

> 2. Number of patients: find the individial patient episodes (CSN; ie. the number of individial patients who were on each respective unit during that week)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Number of patients: find the individual patient episodes (CSN; ie. the number of individual patients who were on each respective unit during that week)
```

> 3. Find the corresponding 1-hour epch labels for each individial patient (only labels are: above/in range/below) within that calendar week

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Find the corresponding hourly epoch labels for each individual patient (only labels are: above/in range/below) within that calendar week
```

- Plot an SPC chart for: y-axis = weekly percentage; x-axis = time

6. BELOW
- **Numerator** = count of the number of 1-hour epochs labelled as 'below' (for each patient - CSN)
- **Denominator** = count of the number of 1-hour epochs labelled as 'above', ‘in range’ and ‘below’ (for each patient - CSN)
- Calculate the individual patient (CSN) percentage for the calendar week = numerator / denominator
- Aggregate all the weekly patient percentages and divide by the number of patients (point 2 above) to generate an **aggregated weekly percentage mean** of 'the proportion of patients receiving oxygen therapy who are 'below' target - **this is the SPC data point**
- Plot an SPC chart for: y-axis = weekly percentage; x-axis = time

7. Repeat for each respective unit T03/GWB/T06/WMS

8. SPC title would need to be adjusted to 'Weekly percentage DURATION of patients within / above / below SpO2 Saturations Target (patients on oxygen therapy)

### n-number for process limits

> n-number for process limits = number of individial patients (CSN) who were on each respective unit during that week (point 2 above)

Reviewer: Is the n-number here is the same for all three charts?
